[What's New?](./index.md) / [About Me](./about.md) / [Publications](./publications.md) / [Music](./music.md)

---

## About Me

I'm a Doctoral Candidate doing theoretical and applied research in the
intersection of statistical data analysis, signal processing, and machine
learning. I develop advanced learning methods and optimized algorithms for
inference tasks such as classification and estimation. My recent works have
focused on developing theory and methods for high-dimensional and low sample
size problems.

In data analysis problems, it is important to be able to measure and quantify
the degree of associations between the variables. This information is given by
the covariance matrix, which is a building block for many important techniques
in statistical data analysis, such as in classification and clustering
algorithms. Covariance matrix estimation methods developed for the traditional
data regime often perform poorly in high-dimensional low sample size settings. A
common approach to solve the problem is to use some variable selection or
dimension reduction technique. In high-dimensional problems, however, the
information of interest in the data is often hidden in an unknown
lower-dimensional subspace.

In my doctoral research, I have developed regularized covariance matrix
estimation methods for high-dimensional single class or multiclass problems.
Regularization refers to incorporating additional or prior information into the
problem, which can be expressed in the form of structure in the unknown
parameters, which can entail sparsity, low rank, or the parameter space can be
constrained to lie on a manifold. Using these tools and techniques, we have been
able to derive various computationally efficient and accurate data analysis
techniques, whose usefulness has been demonstrated using real world data in
problems such as classification or portfolio optimization in finance.

You can find more about my research from the links provided in the
[Publications](./publications.md) page. Many of my articles also include code,
which can be downloaded from my [GitHub](https://github.com/EliasRaninen) page.

I work in [Prof. Esa Ollila's](http://users.spa.aalto.fi/esollila/) research
group with the [Department of Signal Processing and
Acoustics](https://www.aalto.fi/en/department-of-signal-processing-and-acoustics)
at [Aalto University](https://www.aalto.fi/en), Finland.

## Contact

*firstname.lastname*@aalto.fi

Aalto University,
Department of Signal Processing and Acoustics,
Konemiehentie 2, 02150 Espoo / PL 15400, 00076 AALTO,
[Computer Science building](https://www.aalto.fi/en/locations/computer-science-building).
